Feature/12 factor app (#158)
ONSdigital/dp: training/architecture/12_FACTOR_APP_PRINCIPLES.md

12 Factor App Principles
===========================

> In Digital Publishing we build, deploy and manage applications which run as services. The twelve-factor methodology helps us follow best practices and build applications which are portable and resilient. This module will introduce you to the Twelve-factor principles and provide you with examples of how we use them in our team. 

Reviewer: Should it be `in our teams`?

Note: The examples refer primarily to Go apps because that's what I know about. Please add more details or alternative examples which might be useful.

> ## Pre reading

Reviewer: Pre-reading is hyphenated( I think)

- Introduction and Background to [the twelve-factor app](https://12factor.net/)
- [About version control](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control)
- [What is Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD)?](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/devops/what-is-ci-cd)

> ## Pre requisites

Reviewer: Pre requisites is one word

> See pre-requisites in each section.

Reviewer: Same comment as above

## Materials

In this section you can find out how we apply each principle in Digital Publishing:

### 1. Codebase

> Pre-requisite: [Codebase](https://12factor.net/codebase)

Reviewer: same comment as above

> One codebase tracked in revision control, many deploys

The app should be tracked using version control. In DP, We create one GitHub repository per application, for example the [dp-bulletin-api](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp-bulletin-api) repository contains our codebase for that app.
Each _deploy_ of the `dp-bulletin-api` will use a version of the codebase. The version is defined by an annotated tag which references a specific commit in the `dp-bulletin-api` repository. The `production` environment will contain a version deployed from the `master`/`main` branch of the repository, which may be different from the `develop` branch.

Find out more:
- How we [collaborate on Digital Publishing repos](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp/blob/master/guides/CONTRIBUTING.md).
- [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/)

### 2. Dependencies

> Pre-requisite: [Dependencies](https://12factor.net/dependencies)

Reviewer: same as above

> Explicitly declare and isolate dependencies

> A 12-factor app will need to have ownership of its dependencies by defining the version/release of a library ([what's the difference between and app and a library?](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1270729/difference-between-library-and-application-code)). This allows for better control of how the application functions instead of always inheriting the latest version of a library which might not be backward compatible.

Reviewer 2: should and app be an app?

We aim to provide open source software; if we were to hard code our configuration in the service, we might disclose information which could raise security issues. In order to protect information, it is good practice to make sure any secrets, passwords are set using config and never hard coded into an app.

The configuration for each app exists in one place so that we can collaborate and manage them easily, for example: `config/config.go` in our go applications.

In our Go apps we use the [envconfig package](https://github.com/kelseyhightower/envconfig) to help us implement this principle.

### 4. Backing services
Pre-requisite: [Backing services](https://12factor.net/backing-services)

> Treat backing services as attached resources

Our apps rely on the use of external services, such as databases (e.g. MongoDB).

> A 12-factor app should be able to switch out these external services by modifying the configuration, e.g. with no code changes.

Author: I've changed the others now 🙂

2. Release: the [dp-configs](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp-configs) configuration is applied to the build from the previous stage.
3. Run: the app is deployed to the environment (`develop` or `production`) using the selected release.

Strict separation means that any change has to go through the stages, rather than being applied directly at runtime.

We use [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) to give each release a unique id. This allows us to easily rollback to earlier releases.

Find out more:
- [DP Concourse documentation](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp/blob/master/training/platform-services/PLATFORM.md#concourse)
- Head to [concourse.onsdigital.co.uk/](https://concourse.onsdigital.co.uk/) to see our pipelines.

### 6. Processes
Prerequisite: [Processes](https://12factor.net/processes)

> Execute the app as one or more stateless processes
 
A 12-factor app is stateless, i.e. it does not save client data from a session to be used in the next session with that client. This means that restarting the app does not result in different outcomes when processing information or requests.

> In DP, the data that persist is stored in stateful backing service (database... or static file?)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In DP, data that should persist is stored in a stateful backing service (typically a database like Neptune or MongoDB, but also a message queue, such as kafka).
```

no need to mention static files: they are deprecated

> 

Reviewer 2: Should this be a question?

Author: I'm just not sure what I'm saying makes sense 🙈

Reviewer 3: have added a suggestion

- Time gap: when we write code, we _can_ deploy within hours.
- Personnel gap: developers who write the code are involved in the deployment and monitoring.
- Tools gap: `develop` and `production` environments are similar. However, we limit the resources in `develop` to minimise costs.

### 11. Logs
Pre-requisite: [Logs](https://12factor.net/logs)

> Treat logs as event streams

Logs should be written to `STDOUT` and the environment will decide how to stream these events using other services like [fluentd](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd).

- We have logging libraries that follow our [logging standards](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp/blob/master/standards/LOGGING_STANDARDS.md). Using structured logs means we can aggregate the log events.
- The logs are streamed, centralised and aggregated in [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/kibana)

### 12. Admin processes
Pre-requisite: [Admin processes](https://12factor.net/admin-processes)

> Run admin/management tasks as one-off processes

One-off administrative tasks should be one-off processes shipped with application code. Then the process (admin task) should be run remotely, for example by SSHing to the environment.

> In DP, sometimes write these scripts in a separate git repo [dp-data-tools](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp-data-tools) and hence it is not deployable; instead, we use flags to allow us to inject the correct configuration for each environment.

Reviewer 2: in DP, we sometimes

12 Factor App Principles
===========================

In Digital Publishing we build, deploy and manage applications which run as services. The twelve-factor methodology helps us follow best practices and build applications which are portable and resilient. This module will introduce you to the Twelve-factor principles and provide you with examples of how we use them in our team. 

Note: The examples refer primarily to Go apps because that's what I know about. Please add more details or alternative examples which might be useful.

## Pre reading

- [About version control](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-About-Version-Control)
- [What is Continuous Integration (CI) and Continuous Delivery (CD)?](https://www.redhat.com/en/topics/devops/what-is-ci-cd)

> 

Author: oh I like that 👍

## Pre requisites
None.

## Materials
Familiarise yourself [The Twelve-Factor App Principles](https://12factor.net/).

In this section you can find out how we apply each principle in Digital Publishing:

### 1. Codebase

> We create one GitHub repository per application, for example the [dp-bulletin-api](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp-bulletin-api) repository contains our codebase for that app. 

Reviewer 4: Worth adding a description of what makes an app a 12 factor app - A twelve-factor app is always tracked in a version control system

Author: Thank you for all the suggestions, they helped me understand the principles better (I think!)

We export HTTP as a service by binding to a port (generally the `BIND_ADDR` environment variable). We keep track of [port allocations](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp-setup/blob/develop/PORTS.md).

### 8. Concurrency
### 9. Disposability
- We use [Nomad](https://www.nomadproject.io/) to manage our running services. We can easily stop, move and restart apps. If needed, we can also re-deploy apps in Concourse.
- Gracefully shutting down services. [Example code](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp-bulletin-api/blob/142a6adf7a2897221f648af2a9854c26d5830622/service/service.go#L71).

### 10. Dev/prod parity

- We _can_ deploy within hours
- We write code, deploy it and monitor it i.e. no personnel gap
- Our `develop` and `production` environments are similar. However, we limit the resources in `develop` to minimise costs.

### 11. Logs
- We have logging libraries that follow our [logging standards](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp/blob/master/standards/LOGGING_STANDARDS.md).
- The logs are streamed, centralised and aggregated in [Kibana](https://www.elastic.co/kibana)

### 12. Admin processes

### Where we could improve

## Next steps

Further resources
----------------------------

> - Using [dp-cli to generate a repository](https://github.com/ONSdigital/dp-cli/blob/master/project_generation/COMPLETE_PROJECT_SETUP.md)

Reviewer 4: Add any resources specified in my previous comments here, yet it is unnecessary to list all 12 links for 12factor.net and just add https://12factor.net and allow someone to navigate that site instead.
